the Asus g16 and 14 are some of the best
gaming laptops on the market but what if
they have one feature that you really
want a touchcreen well that's what we've
got here today this right here is Asus
Pro art p16 and it is basically the g16
but in professional makeup let's have a
look and this video is sponsored by
AMD how much power is AMD going to get
to consume well apparently 200 Watts
according to the power adapter which
just powered with asus's proprietary
rectangle connector thing it's like USB
type-c but more efficient and less
convenient let's see does this tell me
to plug it in and turn it on yep there
we go plug it in press the power button
hell yeah where your Story
begins not a single thing happened until
you got an Asus laptop well my first
impressions are this is one slab a
laptop right here there's not a whole
lot going on design wise on the back I
guess coming from the G 16 that might be
kind of nice if you don't want like a
great big LED animated display back here
does really like
fingerprints the p16 comes in at 4 lb
or 1.8 kilog that is pretty darn good
given the power that I know this thing
has inside of it also the I/O is very
solid headphone microphone combo Jack
USB type a USB 4 HDMI 2.1 and on the
other side fullsize SD card reader I
love to see that so many others are
going to the small ones this is
fantastic if you're doing stuff like
photo shoots and you want to be able to
just quickly throw your SD card reader
in there and of course another USB type
A around the back there is only exhaust
actually looking at the specs it's only
17.3 mm thick which is pretty darn good
normally expect something to be more
around 20 not that 2 and 1/2 mm is
really going to change your day all
right opening up here it is very similar
to the g16 which does share the same
chassis I need to move this off of the
uh mat here but this is one hell of a
stiff chassis like I am properly sending
it here and like I can't quite tell when
it's the laptop moving and when it's the
table underneath it they're pretty
similar in stiffness
yeah this keyboard is fantastic it
doesn't get full full marks like I think
that they could have a tiny bit more
texture and tactility to the actuation
of the keys but uh yeah it's pretty good
I'm going to give this a solid a for the
keyboard and I think the trackpad might
get an A+ like look at how much space
they have used up with this thing they
literally could not have more of it here
overall the tracking on it is fantastic
fantastic I have not run out of space on
it at all and of course we have this
little thingy up in the top so if you
want to use it you can swipe from the
top right just like that you can now see
that it's turned on using the dial here
you can see that I can just change the
system brightness wow this screen goes
dark imagine this right here is
Lightroom and we're changing the
brightness of a photo or something like
that it's actually a really nice sort of
analog way to adjust something like this
and also you can adjust if co-pilot's on
by hitting the
button oh that's pretty good what I'm
looking for right now is that we have an
OLED panel with a touchcreen digitizer
on the front of it and I have seen a lot
of panels in the past where the two
won't quite line up because the
touchscreen digitizer was made for an
LCD panel this right here does have a
tiny bit of those artifacts like you can
kind of see it as a graininess but I can
only start seeing it about right here
and I would normally be using this
computer right about here where it's not
a problem at all so it's not a problem
at all for the display we've got what
Asus calls their Lumina OLED so this is
16 by10 4K and unfortunately it is just
60 HZ but because it's OLED your
response times will be lower so it's not
going to be brutal to use like a 60 HZ
LCD like this is still pretty Snappy and
responsive even if I can sort of see the
pointer Trails there if you can see that
on the monitor it also has a max
brightness of 500 nits 100% coverage of
DCI P3 Inc comes color calibrated from
the factory so you can just trust that
the colors that you see here are the
colors that everyone else will see
assuming that their monitors are also
color calibrated roughly of course
though the thing that we are looking for
is this WOW touchscreen maybe you care
about it maybe you don't but if you do
this is a pretty good laptop to be
looking into but of course if you have a
beautiful 4K display that is no good if
you don't have the power to back up the
programs that you run on it but but
fortunately we have that here with the
AMD ryzen AI 9 HX 370 this thing has 12
cores 24 threads and goes up to 5.1 GHz
with a 70 W TDP for just the processor
itself which means this should be fairly
rapid for professional programs for
memory we have 32 GB at 7500 megat
transfers per second which means it's
probably not able to be upgraded but it
is also very fast we have a 1 TB SSD
mediate Tech WI ii7 an npu that is good
for 50 tops of performance and of course
your GPU which is an RTX 460 which is
good for many more tops of AI
performance if that's what you're
looking for my notes say that the 4070
which is optional will go up to 321 tops
I'm not totally sure what the 4060 we
have here is capable of that said though
it definitely has 8 GB of vram don't
worry about the AI it's 40% more
efficient that's the bit that really
matters your battery life is way better
with these processors all right let's
try out some of the AI grunt of this
with Muse tree this apparently allows
you to generate AI images and become
more creative either way it's a bunch of
image generation that is on your
computer so it doesn't have to send all
your data and crap to the cloud and you
don't have to be spending money using
generated tokens and crap so create my
muse tree how to ruin the portter
potty okay so here we have several porta
potties that's not quite what we're
looking for dog on Porta
poty there we go this is what all of
your computational resources are for we
can burn the world down with AI but at
least we'll have strange looking dog
outside of portapotty giant cat knocking
down
building
no I wonder if it will be better with
just out my help at all there we go that
one's sort of something we just spend so
much time on that all right let's have a
little game of Rocket League here so
we're looking at about around 100ish FPS
with this 4060 the responsiveness does
seem like it's really quite good and the
colors of this dis display are fantastic
it is a bit of a let down that it's only
60 HZ but at the same time I am
currently getting like 120 FPS well
screen
recording and this is a pretty decent
time especially for a laptop whose
intent is not really gaming it's
supposed to be a Creator first laptop in
here we do have asus's ice cool Pro
thermal technology which gets us up to
120 wats of combined system power which
is pretty impressive given the size of
this thing you were just able to hear
the fans on during rocket league and
even though when you lift it up it's
kind of loud against the table it's
pretty silent and this does also have
liquid metal inside of it these speakers
don't kick ass I'm going to be mad okay
sounds
decent oh yeah there we go you've got
the base the treble is clear it's not
just the Starting All To Hell and you
can tell by the fact that I'm kind of
yelling right now that it's plenty loud
good job Asus they have a webcam turnoff
switch right here I do really like to
see that and this webcam also looks
pretty darn good I'm not getting any
super strange colors on my face that I
can tell it's struggling a tiny bit here
when I point it directly at a bright
Studio light but it's still mostly
exposing for my face if I turn around
here it still is exposing for my face
really quite well it's not blowing out
even though this side is way darker than
this side so whatever image processing
they're using is pretty darn good and of
course it also has Windows hello facial
recognition up top and a fingerprint
reader in the power button right here
which is my favorite combo for getting
in because no matter what you're doing
you can probably get in through one of
those ways all right 11 T6 screws later
two of which were underneath rubber feet
and we are in do make sure if you take
this apart that you organize where all
of your screws go because they are
different lengths keep it organized
like with our little magnetic spots with
our Precision screwdriver set from LT
store.com in here things are looking
pretty good down below we have a 90w
hour battery which an hour testing was
able to get 8 hours and 5 minutes in our
endurance test which is pretty good but
not exceptional but also really quite
good given that this has an OLED display
and those can really use a lot of power
I sure that is Ada of by the AMD
processor in here for upgradability on
the right we have our 1 SSD and on the
left right here you can put a second one
will a double-sided SSD go in yep
double-sided SSD all good in here we can
also see asus's thermal design which is
pretty interesting we have four heat
pipes none of which are particularly
large but we also have three fans this
one down here is good for just cooling
down stuff like your vrms your ssds
pulling in air across everything and it
is sectioned off via a little bit of
foam from your main fans which are Prim
arily just going to be shooting air out
of those heat sinks back there now
before pricing AMD is doing a giveaway
down below so you can get one of these
for free which would be very awesome
this one that we have right here with 32
GB of RAM and a 4060 is a Canada only
model that comes in at
$2600 Canadian or about
$1,870 us which is not too bad of a deal
but strangely in the US you need to go
much more expensive and much more more
computer the US config starts with 64 GB
of RAM 2 terab of storage and a 4070 for
$2700 that's a lot of money but that's
also a lot a lot of computer so yeah if
you're in the US maybe drive up here to
get a cheap laptop the people are nice
so it'll be worth it just like AMD was
really nice to sponsor this video check
out the links down in the description
enter that giveaway and have a great old
day hit like get subscribed and I'll see
you later